# 1. The ML Landscape

## **What is Machine Learning?**

{% hint style="info" %}
**Basic:** Machine Learning is the science of programming computers so they can _learn from data_.

**General:** Machine Learning is the field of study that gives computers the _ability to learn without being explicitly programmed_. — Arthur Samuel, 1959

**Engr-oriented:** A computer program is said to _learn_ from _experience_ **E** with respect to some _task_ **T** and some _performance measure_ **P**, if its _performance_ on **T**, as _measured_ by **P**, _improves with experience_ **E**. — Tom Mitchell, 1997
{% endhint %}

Some of the applications of Machine Learning are:

* Forecasting revenue for the next year, based on past performance metric \(**regression**\)
* Detecting tumors in brain scans \(**classification** - semantic segmentation\)
* Segmenting clients based on their purchasing behaviors \(**clustering**\)
* Detecting fraudulent credit card transactions \(**anomaly detection**\)
* Recommending a product to clients based on past purchases \(**recommender system**\)
* Automatically classifying news articles \(**natural language processing**\)
* Analyzing images of products to automatically classify them \(**image classification**\)
* Creating an app to react to voice commands \(**speech recognition**\)
* Building intelligent bots for games \(**reinforcement learning**\), etc.

## Types of ML Systems

There are multiple types of Machine Learning systems that it is often useful to classify them based on the following criteria:

* Whether or **not** they are trained with **human supervision** 
  * _supervised, unsupervised, semi-supervised_, and _reinforcement learning_
* Whether or **not** they can **learn** incrementally **on the fly**
  * _online_ vs. _batch learning_
* Whether they work by simply **comparing** **new** data points **to known** data points, or instead by **detecting patterns** in the training data and **building a predictive model**
  * _instance-based_ vs. _model-based learning_

{% hint style="danger" %}
These criteria are **not exclusive**; you can combine them in any way you like. For example, a state-of-the-art spam filter may learn on the fly using a DNN model trained using examples of spam and ham; this makes it an **online**, **model- based**, **supervised** learning system.
{% endhint %}

### Supervised Learning

In _supervised learning_, the training set fed into an algorithm includes the desired solutions \(target variable\) called _labels_, beforehand.

Typical supervised learning tasks are **regression** and **classification** whose target variables consist of _numerical_ and _categorical_ variables, responsively. 

An example of a classification problem would be a spam filter, where the training samples are given along with their \(binary\) class: _spam_ or _ham_ \(1 or 0\). 

An example of a regression problem would be predicting the price of a car, where given a set of _features_ \(mileage, age, brand, etc.\), called _predictors_, the task is to predict a _target_ numeric value. 

Below are some of the most important supervised learning algorithms:

* Linear Regression
* Logistic Regression
* k-Nearest Neighbors \(kNN\)
* Support Vector Machines \(SVM\)
* Decision Trees and Random Forests
* Neural Networks 

{% hint style="warning" %}
**Note 1:** Some of the algorithms - such as Random Forests - can be used for both _regression_ and _classification_ problems.
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="warning" %}
**Note 2:** Some neural network architectures can be _unsupervised_, such as _autoencoders_ and _restricted Boltzmann machines_. They can also be _semi-supervised_, such as in _deep belief networks_ and _unsupervised pretraining_.
{% endhint %}

### Unsupervised Learning

In contrast to _supervised_ learning, in _unsupervised_ learning the training data is unlabeled. The algorithms try to learn without human supervision.







